.TH RJSC 1 "June 2026" "rjsc 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
rjsc \- RJ45 Sound Card \- share any audio device over Ethernet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rjsc
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Network audio bridge that lets you share any physical sound card from one PC
(the \fBserver\fR) over a wired Ethernet (RJ45) cable to another PC
(the \fBclient\fR), where it appears as a local virtual audio device.
Audio is bidirectional — server-to-client AND client-to-server — using raw
UDP for audio streaming, TCP for control messages, and UDP broadcast for
auto-discovery on the local network.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print help information and exit.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Print version information and exit.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBserve\fR [\fB\-c\fR \fICONFIG\fR]
Run in SERVER mode: share this PC's audio devices over the network.
.TP
\fBconnect\fR [\fB\-c\fR \fICONFIG\fR] [\fB\-s\fR \fIADDRESS\fR]
Run in CLIENT mode: connect to a remote server and use its audio devices.
If \fB\-s\fR is not provided, auto-discovers servers via UDP broadcast on port 42000.
.TP
\fBlist\fR
List all available audio devices on this machine (input and output).
.TP
\fBgui\fR [\fB\-c\fR \fICONFIG\fR] [\fB\-s\fR \fIADDRESS\fR]
Open the graphical control panel (requires \fBgui\fR feature at build time).
Provides device selection, volume sliders, and live logging.
.TP
\fBinit\fR [\fIPATH\fR]
Generate a default configuration file at \fIPATH\fR (default: \fBrjsc.toml\fR).
Edit this file to configure audio devices, network ports, and mode settings.

.SH FILES
.TP
\fBrjsc.toml\fR
Configuration file in TOML format. See \fBCONFIGURATION\fR section below.

.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file has four sections:
.TS
tab(:);
l l.
\fB[audio]\fR:Audio device and format settings
\fB[network]\fR:Network ports and bind address
\fB[server]\fR:Server-specific options
\fB[client]\fR:Client-specific options
.TE
.sp
.TP
\fB[audio]\fR options:
.RS
.TP
\fBinput_device\fR = \fI"@default"\fR
Input device name (or \fB@default\fR for system default). Run \fBrjsc list\fR to see available devices.
.TP
\fBoutput_device\fR = \fI"@default"\fR
Output device name. Use \fB@default\fR for system default.
.TP
\fBchannels\fR = \fI2\fR
Number of audio channels (1\~to\~64).
.TP
\fBsample_rate\fR = \fI48000\fR
Sample rate in Hz. Supported values: 44100, 48000, 96000, 192000.
.TP
\fBbuffer_frames\fR = \fI256\fR
Buffer size in frames. Lower values reduce latency but increase CPU usage.
Supported sizes: 64, 128, 256, 512, 1024.
.RE
.TP
\fB[network]\fR options:
.RS
.TP
\fBaudio_port\fR = \fI42001\fR
UDP port for raw PCM audio streaming.
.TP
\fBcontrol_port\fR = \fI42002\fR
TCP port for JSON control messages.
.TP
\fBdiscovery_port\fR = \fI42000\fR
UDP port for broadcast discovery announcements.
.TP
\fBbind_address\fR = \fI"0.0.0.0"\fR
Network interface to bind to.
.RE
.TP
\fB[server]\fR options:
.RS
.TP
\fBauto_accept\fR = \fItrue\fR
Whether to automatically accept incoming client connections.
.TP
\fBmax_clients\fR = \fI4\fR
Maximum number of simultaneously connected clients.
.RE
.TP
\fB[client]\fR options:
.RS
.TP
\fBserver_address\fR = \fI""\fR
Server address in \fIip:port\fR format. Leave empty for auto-discovery.
.TP
\fBuse_virtual_device\fR = \fItrue\fR
Whether to send audio to a virtual audio device on the client (e.g. ALSA snd-aloop, BlackHole, VB-Cable).
.TP
\fBvirtual_device_name\fR = \fI"RJ45 Virtual Audio"\fR
Name of the virtual audio device to use for playback.
.TP
\fBauto_reconnect\fR = \fItrue\fR
Automatically reconnect to the server if the connection is lost (5s delay).
.RE

.SH PROTOCOLS
.TP
\fBPort 42000/UDP\fR
Discovery. The server broadcasts a JSON announcement every 3 seconds to
255.255.255.255. The client listens on this port to find available servers.
.TP
\fBPort 42001/UDP\fR
Audio streaming. Raw 32-bit float PCM samples with a 40-byte binary header
containing magic (0x524A3435 = "RJ45"), stream ID, sequence number,
timestamp, channel count, sample rate, and frame count.
Maximum UDP payload: 65507 bytes.
.TP
\fBPort 42002/TCP\fR
Control protocol. JSON messages prefixed by a 4-byte little-endian length field.
Supports device listing, selection, stream start/stop, volume control,
status queries, and ping/pong keep-alive.

.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
\fBList available audio devices:\fR
.nf
    rjsc list
.fi
.PP
\fBGenerate and edit the config file:\fR
.nf
    rjsc init
    $EDITOR rjsc.toml
.fi
.PP
\fBStart the server (studio PC with physical sound card):\fR
.nf
    rjsc serve
    rjsc serve \-c /etc/rjsc.toml
.fi
.PP
\fBConnect a client via auto-discovery:\fR
.nf
    rjsc connect
.fi
.PP
\fBConnect a client to a specific server:\fR
.nf
    rjsc connect \-\-server 192.168.1.100:42002
.fi
.PP
\fBOpen the GUI control panel:\fR
.nf
    rjsc gui
    rjsc gui \-\-server 192.168.1.100:42002
.fi

.SH VIRTUAL AUDIO DEVICES
For the client to present the remote sound card as a local device:
.TP
\fBLinux\fR
Run \fBsudo ./scripts/linux_setup.sh install\fR to load the \fBsnd-aloop\fR
kernel module. Creates virtual loopback audio devices.
.TP
\fBmacOS\fR
Run \fBsudo ./scripts/mac_setup.sh install\fR to install BlackHole.
.TP
\fBWindows\fR
Run \fBpowershell -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File scripts\\windows_setup.ps1 install\fR
as Administrator to install VB-Cable.

.SH LATENCY
.nf
Buffer    Latency @ 48 kHz    Recommended use
\~\~\~\~\~\~    \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~    \~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~\~
64         ~1.3 ms             Real-time monitoring
128        ~2.7 ms             Optimal performance
256        ~5.3 ms             Standard usage
512        ~10.7 ms            High-latency network
1024       ~21.3 ms            Troubleshooting
.fi
.PP
Bandwidth for 48 channels @ 48 kHz: ~55 Mbps, well within Gigabit Ethernet capability.

.SH FIREWALL
Open the following ports on both server and client:
.br
\fBUDP 42000\fR (service discovery)
.br
\fBUDP 42001\fR (audio streaming)
.br
\fBTCP 42002\fR (control protocol)

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
\fBHOSTNAME\fR or \fBCOMPUTERNAME\fR
Used by the server for discovery announcements. Falls back to "unknown" if unset.
.TP
\fBRUST_LOG\fR
Controls logging verbosity. Set to \fBdebug\fR, \fBinfo\fR (default), \fBwarn\fR, or \fBerror\fR.

.SH BUILDING FROM SOURCE
.nf
git clone https://github.com/devfrp/rj45-sound-card.git
cd rj45-sound-card
cargo build --release
./target/release/rjsc --help
.fi
.PP
To build without the GUI:
.nf
cargo build --release --no-default-features
.fi

.SH BUGS
Report issues at \fBhttps://github.com/devfrp/rj45-sound-card/issues\fR.

.SH LICENSE
MIT

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rjsc.toml (5),
.BR jackd (1),
.BR pulseaudio (1),
.BR pipewire (1)
